# RPI Men’s Lacrosse Game Performance Prediction -Devon Boyko

This project uses data from the 2022-2023 RPI Men's Lacrosse team. The data was collected using Polar heart monitors and the Polar Team Pro System. The goal of this project is to create a model to predict performance in games based on multiple types of data from the days leading up to a game to be able to optimally prepare for games. Updated data can be downloaded from the Polar Team website, but the data used in the project is attached. The code used to analyze the data is also attached as "ML_Final_Projet_team.ipynb". Once the data is imported, the code can be run straight through and will provide the desired outputs. The other code that is attached "ML_Final_Project.ipynb" is the initial work that was started for data breakdown for one individual before the team/group was used. It is not complete for final anlaysis as the project was focused on the team data.

The data included all players and the types of data were day of activity, duration (hr:min:sec), average heart rate (bpm), maximum heart rate (bpm), total distance (yds), maximum speed (mph), average speed (mph), calories (kcal), and training load score. It is downloaded as a .CSV file. Before the data is imported into the code, some changes need to be made to the file to ensure proper formatting. The dates need to be changed to the excel date format. For each day, a summary of the data is provided and a brake down into the different times that exercise was performed if there were multiple sessions. The sessions were deleted from the dataset and only the daily summary was used. It was then saved as an excel file. The performance data was created in an excel file. It included team played, date, percent of goals met, RPI score, opponent score, and win/loss as a binary 1 or 0. These steps were performed for both the spring 2022 data and spring 2023 data. Once the data is imported as a dataframe, all dates were converted into a pandas timestamp and sorted from oldest first to most recent last. The duration was converted from hours, minutes, and seconds into just seconds and converted into an integer data type. A filter of maximum speed at 27.5 mph was used to discard erroneous data. The data was then divided into groups that represented the days leading up to and including games. From those groupings, the number of days, average heart rate, average distance, average speed, average calories burned, average training load, and total training load were calculated and added into a new dataframe. The data was then normalized using mean normalization and broken down into training and testing data. The spring 2022 data is the input and output training data and the spring 2023 data is the input and output testing data. After seven inputs were tested, the inputs were lowered to four: number of days, average heart rate, average distance, and average training load.
